Welcome to the aid of your s section of the Course AWOS or Amazon Web Services is something provided
by the company Amazon.
You see over the years they've grown to a very very large size and because of that they have a lot of
servers.
A lot of machines and they've become really really good at managing these machines and making sure that
they work together.
And a few years back they discovered that this expertise of being able to manage machines and making
large scale applications is a skill that a lot of people wanted.
So they created this service Amazon Web Services to help people by letting us in a sense rent some of
their services so that we can run on the same platform same infrastructure that Amazon runs on a massive
massive e-commerce company.
And in this section we're going to learn all about that you see with AWOS.
You can select the specific solutions you need and only pay for exactly what you use.
So you don't have to worry about buying the equipment managing everything.
You see Amazon owns all of that.
All you need to worry about is make sure that you send them the right code you connect the pieces together
and they'll run everything for you.
And this means that you're going to have lower capital spending or you're going to spend a lot less
money setting everything up yourself as well as having faster time to actually start deploying your
application and your application because it runs on Amazon's services is already out of the gate for
performance and scaling some things that we really really value and more and more companies are starting
to build their infrastructure partially or entirely in the cloud with Amazon Web Services and you'll
hear the term on premise or an arm pram data center and that's when you had like I said before your
own servers your own machines and this is becoming less and less common.
We just let big companies like Amazon Google or Microsoft handle this for us and the cloud now ensures
the reliability compliance security standards and the ability to Insley grow and shrink our infrastructure
to meet our needs based on our app.
It just gets rid of a ton of headaches and it's growing like crazy because of the obvious benefits.
Now why do we need this again.
Well remember our application that we're trying to build our smart brain app we have all these connecting
pieces and looking at all of this that's a lot of engineering time.
I mean we have to set up rattus because.
Yeah and of all men we can have everything under one container but in reality in production we need
to make sure that they can scale and that we perhaps put them in different geographical location if
we have users from different parts of the world that need to have servers close to them.
And we might need to manage databases and perhaps do things like shorting or adding extra data bases
we might want to add load balancers and it just adds a lot of complexity to why we need to do with Ada.
Yes they take care of some of these pain points for us.
You want to load balancer.
They'll take care of it.
You want databases to be just automatically scalable as users and data grows.
They can do that for you and all these things are done out of the box.
All we do is provide them the code some configuration.
And you're all set.
Now there are two other platforms that are quite big.
Actually four if you really want to get into it obviously we've talked about Amazon but there's also
Microsoft Azure and Google Cloud platform or GCP for short.
There's also IBM that's in the market but these are the top three right now.
And all of them are competing for this massive massive market share and they're trying to each do one
another.
And how do they do that.
Well each of them have a lot of machines a lot of servers and a lot of expertise in managing these massive
massive scale but they try to differentiate themselves by offering different services and then the next
video we're going to talk about some of the services that Amazon offers.
And Microsoft and Google also offer some of these services but also offer some of the unique ones.
So as a user as a developer you can pick and choose based on what type of service you need to decide
for yourself.
I should go with one of them and it's become easier and easier to just transfer and change services
as you want.
So in the next video let's tackle some of the services to have a better idea of what this whole infrastructure
as a service platform as a service means.